### Homework #1
**September 1st, 2024**
**Aiden Allen**

1) **Answer the following**
- Explain what is meant by Artificial Intelligence.

Artificial intelligence is the attempt to automate tasks that typically require human intelligence. Generally speaking artificial intelligence is difficult to define, what we commonly refer to in the modern day when colloquially describing Artificial Intelligence is a large language model or generative AI. These can produce responses to questions simulating human conversation, as well as create photos, videos, and music. This definition only covers a small fraction of the applications of AI. AI encompasses a large number of technologies including but not limited to robotics, expert systems, LLM's, and Computer Vision. We can define AI through its function, much like Francis Bacons *features*. AI is comprised of some form of pattern recognition, some form of reasoning in about the situation for which it is presented, attempts to deal with both the meaning as well as the surface form of the problem, as well as attempting to use large amounts of knowledge (data) in order to solve a specific problem. There are many conflicting ideas of what makes something intelligent, and somewhat requires a definition of what intelligence is, which is another problem within itself.  

- Ada Lovelace was a collaborator and supporter of Charles Babbage and is sometimes regarded as the first computer programmer. She is quoted as saying in reference to Babbage’s Analytical Engine: “The Analytical Engine has no pretensions whatever to originate anything. It can do whatever we know how to order it to perform. It can follow analysis; but it has no power of anticipating any analytical relations or truths. Its province is to assist us to making available what we are already acquainted with.” Do you agree with Lovelace’s statement in the context of modern-day computing? Explain your answer, i.e., state why you agree or disagree.

Ada Lovelace's statement about the Analytical Engine, that it has no power to originate anything but can only perform tasks based on what we already know, remains relevant in the context of modern computing, especially artificial intelligence. Specifically in the context of artificial intelligence, her statement, "It can follow analysis; but it has no power of anticipating any analytical relations or truths. Its province is to assist us to making available what we are already acquainted with." Generative AI such has chatgpt has been poised as a revolutionary technology, however, it does not currently have the capacity to generate new knowledge. Currently, all information provided by chatgpt is derived from statements and data gathered from previous writings. In fact when training on its own data regression has been observed, proving that it is not intelligent in itself. It is assisting us in locating information that has already been created. In addition to this AI is often domain constrained. The example given in the book provides a story of the expert system MYCIN asking a male patient if hes was pregnant. Modern computing has no conception of the outside world nor its own, it is created by us and lives within our constraints. It may serve beneficial in locating data, and amalgamating information, however it cannot reach beyond our grant.

- What is the Turing Test? 

The Turing Test also known as the Imitation Game essentially seeks to prove if a computer is intelligent. The test consists of two participants as well as the computer. The goal on participant number one is too test to see if they can differentiate between a computer and a human. This test essentially is attempting to see if a computer can successfully mimic human conversation. 

- In your opinion, is this test a correct measure of intelligence? State your reasons.

I personally do not believe this is a correct measurement of intelligence. Humans are traditionally unreliable, we are forgetful, slow thinkers (when compared to computers especially), and we make mistakes often. Additionally, Artificial Intelligence does not aim to emulate human intelligence. These issues seem to arises from the avoidance in traditionally defining intelligence. Artificial intelligence may still posses intelligence, just a new kind of intelligence. 

- Is attempting to build a machine that can pass the Turing Test a suitable aim of AI research? State your reasons.

It depends. I would argue that any form of research within artificial intelligence would be a suitable aim, due to the adolescence of AI. No matter the form of research it will prove fruitful in some capacity. While I do not agree the purpose of AI is to mimic human intelligence, research within testing intelligence maybe the skeleton key to further understanding our own intelligence as well as artificial ones. For instance in 2022 Lambda (google AI) supposedly passed the Turing test. While its soul goal was not to pass a Turing test, it has proved useful, even revolutionary in modern life. Further research into passing the Turing test would enable researchers to more thoroughly understand LLM's and allow them to more closely emulate human speech. 

- The Strong AI Hypothesis claims that it is possible to program a digital computer so that it embodies true human-like consciousness, i.e., intelligence, understanding, emotions, self-awareness, etc. State whether you agree or disagree with this hypothesis and give your reasons.

The goal of AI is not to simulate human intelligence. Anthropocentrism has served as a starting point for the development of AI, and often helps humans understand as well as develop "intelligent" systems. However, AI may occupy its own form of intelligence. I do not believe replicating human features should be a focal point of AI development. We as humans do not posses certain skills, partly because of how broad our reach seems to be. AI should be centralized on tasks in the very same way, introducing a broad scope to AI, would only limit its reach. If AI thought in the same manner as humans it would posses our very same weaknesses (Afterthought: We can see this through ChatGPT! It gets lazier in the Winter months). Searle would argue that without understanding the task we cannot posit that the machine has a mind, as we cannot say that it is thinking. In addition to this AI is extremely limited, it is optimistic at best to assume we can create this definition of a Strong AI. In order to create this AI we would need to comprehensively understand our own intelligence, which maybe very well impossible. This implications are even more concerning when revealing the ethical complications of AI human like intelligence. 


- In 1976, Alan Newell and Herbert Simon proposed the Physical Symbol System Hypothesis: The necessary and sufficient condition that a system be intelligent is that it be a physical symbol system. Do you agree with this hypothesis?

I dont believe that it is possible for a machine to properly understand physical symbols. I tend to agree with Serle's argument of the Chinese room. A system is not necessarily intelligent because it responds in a correct manner. A computer may interpret words, and translate them to a form in which the other user may understand but this doesnt mean they understand. Just as I can randomly say words and I may say a word in another language accidently, and I may say a full sentence in fact, but this is a result of chance rather than reality. It is of my opinion that it might as well be the same for AI, however, there are layers of probability in place that make these random words (that the computer has no actual understanding of) seem intentional.

- In 1980, John Searle presented his Chinese Room Argument. This was intended to dispute the Strong AI Hypothesis, and implicitly also the Physical Symbol System Hypothesis. What is the key point of Searle’s argument? Do you agree with it? Does it effectively dispute the two hypotheses?

The key point in Searles argument was that a machine may display a response that implies it understands the question at hand, however, just because it may produce an appropriate response does not mean the response was thought about. The Chinese room hypothesis essentially states that even though a computer may process symbols in a way that it can use, and apply to a response, that does not mean a machine understands the true meaning of the words. I do agree with this because symbols may be processed, but I do not think it guarantees that the processing is understood. 


3) Much traditional Western thought has dwelt on the mind–body relationship. Are the mind and body:
	- Distinct entities somehow interacting
	- Is mind a expression of "physical processes"
	- Body just an illusion of the rational mind

- Discuss your thoughts on the mind–body problem and its importance for a theory of artificial intelligence. 

The mind-body problem is an attempt to understand how both physical and mental processes interact. There are many schools of thought such as Dualism, Idealism, and Functionalism that have attempted to describe this phenomena. I am of the opinion that the mind is somewhat both "Distinct entities somehow interacting" as well as "Physical processes". We can see our physical processes, observe them, feel them, and even to a degree understand them. Our mind is encapsulated within our physical processes, however, I believe it would be naive to boil such a mystical system down to these inter workings. Our brain must process symbolic imagery and hold some sort of meaning to these values, in this way it does allow for "Distinct entities somehow interacting". These entities, under my opinion, are not physical ones rather registers of human experience. Our mind may be seen as broken up into elements such as the Symbolic, the Real, and Imaginary. These symbolic entities influence how we experience and interact with the world around us. This problem is extremely important to the theory of artificial intelligence as it is essential for creating a "Human Like" ai. Further understanding the ways in which our own brain operates will assist us in the creation of AI. An example from the book states that psychologists have adapted the language of many computer science terms in order to better understand the brain. This has additionally helped computer scientists further develop AI. The understanding of our own brain will help us further understand and develop AI. The mind body problem may additionally hold importance for the ways in which we understand if an intelligent system is in fact intelligent. This may answer some of the problems that proponents such as Alan Turing failed to answer.

4) Criticize Turing’s criteria for computer software being “intelligent”

Turing believed that in order for a computer to be deemed intelligent it must reason, and be able to be understood as human like. Specifically, he proposed a test known as the Imitation Game, now commonly known as the Turing Test, in which a human evaluator attempts to differentiate between a software and a human subject. This definition however has a few major flaws. For one it is extremely subjective, the judgment on weather a machine is intelligent or not would surely very from human to human, as well as attempt from attempt. In addition to this Turing lacks a pure definition of intelligent, rather, he avoids defining it and attempts to classify it through his test. This however again leaves an excess of variability due to the answer being left up to interpretation. Finally his arguments are centered around human intelligence, not intelligence as a whole. Turing's argument essentially states that in order for a machine to be intelligent it must be in some way human. This leaves many holes in our understanding of machine intelligence, for one the problem of symbolic reasoning. Does the machine actually understand, or is it calculating a response based on some mass statistical model? It is impossible to test some of these factors, and also assumes that machines cannot be intelligent in their own way.

5) Describe your own criteria for computer software to be considered “intelligent”

I personally believe computer intelligence to be impossible to define. Much of what we call intelligence in the broader sense is abstract. We understand animals to be in some sense intelligence, however they do not posses many of the features we desire from AI, nor the capabilities. It is my understanding that many of the definitions of AI confuse intelligence for Human Intelligence. Even if an answer is "incorrect" it is incorrect on the basis of human intelligence. The computer sees the input and will always produce an output, if the output is deemed incorrect it is not the fault of the machines intelligence rather our own. Determining if a machine is intelligent or not has been misconstrued into "does the machine operate in the ways in which I wish it to operate". So in my opinion, a machine may be deemed intelligent if it performs in the manner in which we demand it to. There maybe further implications to this, however, intelligence is invented by humans. When the world formed there was no intelligence, intelligence is a tool we use to classify interactions surrounding us. <i>"Language is the site of self-identification"</i>, Jacques Lacan. 

10) Discuss why you think the problem of machines “learning” is so difficult.

I believe the problem of machines learning is so difficult for a multitude of reasons. For one we are attempting in a way to often emulate human operations. While this maybe useful to our understanding of problems, as well as understanding the AI processes, this maybe disadvantageous. The most major issue that I see within this problem is machines understanding symbolism. I don't believe that AI can properly learn, rather make an educated guess that may often be correct.  AI may not understand the symbolic meanings nor the idioms. Real understanding of the problems that it may face require knowledge of the world around it, as well as being able to resolve certain ambiguities that it maybe presented with. AI does not posses flexibility like humans do, it seems to be limited to its own constraints of knowledge. 

12) **List and discuss two potentially negative effects on society of the development of artificial intelligence technologies**

There are many negative effects on society that AI may cause for instance a dependence on AI as a tool, and many security issues. AI in its modern form has only recently reached popularity, and has already had a dramatic effect on students. [A recent study demonstrated these effects, stating that 56 percent of college students have used AI on an Assignment or Exam](https://www.bestcolleges.com/research/most-college-students-have-used-ai-survey/). Students ([as well as professionals](https://decrypt.co/147191/no-human-programmers-five-years-ai-stability-ceo)) are becoming more and more dependent on AI, with dependents comes the elusion of learning. While AI may assist us in further progressing in the short term, it may lead to drastic effects in the near future due to a lack in competent human intervention. Students who cheat on assignments, or exams. Are not gaining the necessary experience they need in order to successfully perform.  A common excuse, that I hear from my peers, is that "I just use AI on busy work" or "Its easy I can just study the night before the exam and generate my answers now". While this alternative is easier, you are missing out on the experience you need to ready yourself for tasks you may not want to complete in the future.  AI is creating a indolent future, as well as a deep whole within the acquisition of knowledge. The issues of dependence have also called into question the security implications of AI. As many students and professionals share their concerns with chat bots like ChatGPT, these systems are increasingly being exposed to a [significant amount of sensitive data](https://www.zdnet.com/article/employees-input-sensitive-data-into-generative-ai-tools-despite-the-risks/).
This raises many important questions about how this data is being handled, as well as the dangers of relying on such a system. A major example of this is the recent [backlash from Microsoft's Recall feature](https://www.pcworld.com/article/2447369/recall-2-microsoft-plans-another-ai-feature-that-reads-everything.html). The recall feature enables Microsoft AI enabled devices to repeatedly capture screenshots of the screen, and in turn storing their meta data, in order to allow users to revisit applications or web pages that they previously viewed.  This issue faced major backlash given the privacy concerns such as screenshotting passwords, bank numbers, as well as other sensitive data. While Microsoft assured users that this data was highly encrypted, as well as sensitive data should not be documented, in execution this data can be accesses. Quickly after its release tools were developed in order to decrypt these files. While as of now these files are locally stored, Microsoft has not commented on whether or not meta data is anonymized and sent for data collection and further training.


****

### Citations

- “56% of College Students Have Used AI on Assignments or Exams: BestColleges.” BestColleges.Com, 22 Nov. 2023, www.bestcolleges.com/research/most-college-students-have-used-ai-survey/. 
- “Employees Input Sensitive Data into Generative AI Tools despite the Risks.” ZDNET, www.zdnet.com/article/employees-input-sensitive-data-into-generative-ai-tools-despite-the-risks/. Accessed 7 Sept. 2024. 
- Google’s AI passed the Turing test — and showed how it’s broken - The Washington Post. (n.d.). https://www.washingtonpost.com/technology/2022/06/17/google-ai-lamda-turing-test/
- Lanz, Jose Antonio. “Stability AI CEO: There Will Be No (Human) Programmers in Five Years.” Decrypt, Decrypt, 28 Sept. 2023, decrypt.co/147191/no-human-programmers-five-years-ai-stability-ceo. 
- Lee, Laura Pippig and Joel. “Recall 2.0? Microsoft Plans Another AI Feature That Scans Everything.” PCWorld, 4 Sept. 2024, www.pcworld.com/article/2447369/recall-2-microsoft-plans-another-ai-feature-that-reads-everything.html. 
- Luger, G. F. (2009). Artificial Intelligence: Structures and Strategies for Complex Problem Solving (6th ed.). Pearson.
