**Antic**
- (adj) ludicrously odd
- (n.) a ludicrous or grotesque act done for fun and amusement
- (v.) act as or like a clown

The children laughed at the clowns antics. 
<br><br>
**Aphorism**
- (n.) a short pithy instructive saying

Its an old aphorism. My mom used to tell it to me when I was a kid.
<br>
<br>
**Apocalyptic**
- (adj.) predicting or presaging universal destruction, devastation or ultimate doom

A zombie outbreak would be apocalyptic. I dont know if I would survive.

<br><br>
**Apocryphal**
- (adj.) of questionable authenticity; false

 The apocryphal story of Columbus and the egg is very interesting.

<br><br>
**Apoplectic**
- (adj. n.) Extremely angry or furious

After hearing the unfair decision, he became apoplectic with rage, his face turning red as he struggled to control his temper.

<br><br>
**Apprehension**
- fearful expectation
- the cognitive condition of someone who understands
- the act of apprehending a criminal
- (syn. ) trepidation
- (v.) apprehend
- (adj. apprehensive)

The police officer apprehended the perpetrator for stealing his donuts.<br> 
John was apprehensive to attempt a backflip, because he had hurt himself attempting a backflip last year.
<br><br>
**Appraise** 
- (v.) to assess the worth value of

Johns house was appraised at 1 dollar, since he was missing a roof and a toilet.
<br><br>
**Apprise**
- (v.) to give notice; to inform

I wanted to apprise you of the dangers of walking along that trail, theres been wild bears snatching hikers recently.
<br><br>
**Approbation**
- (n.) the expression of approval or favorable opinion, praise; official approval.
- (adj. ) approbatory
- (ant. ) disapprobation

She received widespread approbation for her research on vaping! She discovered it was bad for you!
<br>
<br>
**Apropos**
- (adj. ) fitting the occasion; suitable or appropriate

His comment about teamwork was apropos, give that we were discussing how to improve the collaboration for the project.


