# Chapter 3

A **greedy algorithm** will go to the closest node,  however this is often not the shortest path. Often shortest path is not efficient to calculate because it takes $O(N)!$ time or $O(N - 1)$ if the start node is fixed.z

### Using State Space Search to Represent Reasoning with the Propositional and Predicate Calculus

Inference rules are used to describe the arc. We can create a graph from some logic statements. 

- $q \implies p$ 
- $p \implies r$
- Etc.

From this we can derive that q is connected to r through p. We want to find a path from a node to another, we can do this through traversing the graph. We can create an and statement by putting an arch inbetween arrows. 

### Some Examples

There exists a location X where fred is

$$
\exists X location(fred, X)
$$

Fred is trained

$$
trained(fred)
$$

Spaniels are good dogs and so are trained collies

$$
\forall X(Spaniel(X) \lor (collie(X) \land trained(X)) \implies gooddog(x))
$$

If a dog is a good dog and has a master then he will be with his master

$$
\forall X \forall Y \forall Z (gooddog(X) \land master(X, Y) \land location(Y, Z)) \implies location(X,Z)
$$


It is friday and hot so I am at the beach

$$
day(friday) \land hot(friday) \implies location(X, beach)
$$


We will never be able to provide a complete description of the world for the knowledge base, but we must assume that it is.  We can unify these propositions to derive new meanings from them.

**For example we can derive freds location from the propositions: **

If a dog is a good dog and has a master then he will be with his master

$$
\forall X \forall Y \forall Z (gooddog(X) \land master(X, Y) \land location(Y, Z)) \implies location(X,Z)
$$

It is friday and hot so I am at the beach

$$
day(friday) \land hot(friday) \implies location(X, beach)
$$

When unifying these statements we can combine like terms

$$
\forall X \forall Z  (gooddog(X) \land master(X, me) \land location(me, Z))
$$

$$
\forall X (master(X, me) \land gooddog(X)) \implies location(me, beach)
$$

[Financial Advisor Expert System](prolog/finance.pl)
